Hey guys welcome back.
So last time we wrote this a function which allows us to remember the values from the previous forms
mission.
This is space use and to type out the names or use an image again if there's a problem with them.
Now we're ready to move on to the database side of things including our users table.
So go ahead the new tab and go to local host slash HP.
My admin pay HP my admin.
Now this is the front end for us.
I ask you our database so go to that.
If this doesn't work for you you can't see it.
Make sure you have the my escarole database running OK.
This needs to be running zengota new and then in here the Cray database we'll put the Davis name is
whatever you call it it doesn't matter.
Just I'll call it slow to fire I guess that's my name with the Get name of my website so Spotify he
can call it whatever you want.
OK now go and find this new them right here and you'll see there's no tables in there so it's give me
the option to correct a will.
So is I here type users were asking me the name of our table and go ahead and give this 8 columns.
Okay A columns so we have a column templates here.
This is how we create a table so the first column is going to have the name I.D. The type is going to
stays in it.
And then scroll along to the right and you see this a Irae here which stands for auto increment and
change in the drop down to the left of it to primary primary key.
And what this means the auto inkerman means that this value right here in this column that idea e what
increment automatically every single time a new value was added.
For example the first user to be entered into a state raised table will have the idea of 1 The second
use will have the idea of 2.
Okay this means we don't have to manually assign a value.
For example if we got 50 people in the users table and our own is a new value I won't have to go and
check to see how many values are to give it.
The idea 51 it will automatically take the next number of cases which makes it a little bit easier for
us.
So you ought to increment and in the primary key means that this is going to be a unique value in the
table.
We know that this value can.
You can never have the same idea.
So you never have a user with the idea of 7 and another user.
Also with the idea sabran there always have a unique idae.
Okay so that's all you need to know about that for now.
That will probably become a bit clearer as we start using this but the next column is going to be user
name and the type of this is going to be varchar and then the length is going to be how many characters
we allow them to have.
So 25 characters for a username is probably good.
And then next column is going to be first name like this.
And there's also varchar varchar of text value and then the length of this let's say 15 because 50 sounds
good.
Aren't for a first name last name and then varchar 50 again.
Feel free to adjust these values as you like email.
I don't know what the good value would be for the email so we can just say no to Andrew.
Just to be safe and password now the password is going to be a varchar 32 and the reason it's me thirsty
is because we're going to encrypt this password before we put it into the database and the encryption
method we're using is going to keep any encryption method we're using is going.
Transform the password into a 32 character long string that probably won't make sense as some of you
from now.
But just 32 in there and explain that as we get there and then we have the sign up date so they signed
up and this is going to be a date time not date.
Date time which is a little bit further down their date time only differences date would just set the
date and time will also take the time so date argued at length in there and the same at the top of that
to say you don't have to.
Better late than never in either.
So length sent you don't need and length your date time should only be there for varchar you do.
And then the last one is going to be a profile page which you read the link to their profile picture
which you can assign to them via char and then just put 500 Finan because you don't know how it's going
to be.
The key is going to be the path to the file and we don't know how many carries will you have in that.
And it's worth noting that if you use five hundred and all of these you won't use extra memory because
it will only use as much memories it needs.
For example if I put 250 in there it wouldn't use any more memory than if I put 25.
All it means is you restricted from putting in that many characters so I can't but twice six characters
in here only uses as much memory as the text.
This is at the field so it doesn't use any more memory.
They ask.
And that's it.
Go ahead and click save and that is our users table Don.
So click on use as well.
You can see there's no results in here yet.
But that's that's it.